---
layout: post
title:      "How I Got Into Programming"
date:       2019-02-25 21:33:11 +0000
permalink:  how_i_got_into_programming
---


Similar to my feelings coming into the first project, I think some of the reasons I became interested in and decided to study programming align with the stories of many others. Although I can't say for sure what impact it had on my interest in coding, my interest in computers and technology definitely started when I was young, watching my brother play games like Half Life, Diablo, and Star Wars on our family computer. At the time, it felt like magic, like we were playing around in someone's imagination. 

My interest continued to grow over the years (especially when youtube started!) and in highschool, after years of playing games with friends, we started to wonder how how they worked. Although we had some basic knowledge of hardware and the existence of code, it felt like a mysterious secret language. However, after searching around the internet a bit, we discovered that it wasn't quite as mysterious as we'd thought. People just like us had been poking around this mystical code and making their own changes to the games for years! With that, we started messing around with some simple tools  that we read about online, like hex editors or just opening files to see if we could decipher anything inside. Even though the things I learned were all very interesting and I had some desire to learn more, my school didn't offer much in the way of computer classes, and I was admittedly too distracted with playing the games rather than spending the time to understand them at a deeper level, so my exposure/experience remained pretty limited.

 Once college came around though, I saw all the different courses I could take and thought this was the time and place to really start learning about programming with some structure and guidance (and maybe have fun doing it too). Unfortunately, after over a year of studying, I had became frustrated with the strict and dry (and not the good DRY) teaching styles of my school. My professors taught from a couple of books that one of them had written and treated them like a bible, with everything I could ever need contained within and advocating against the use of resources on the internet that might lead me astray from what they thought was best. I felt I was barely any more knowledgeable on the subject than when I had started, only capable of writing basic functions in a single language. Because of this, I foolishly gave up and moved on to another subject, thinking maybe I was wrong and this just wasn't for me or that I could still pursue it later in life. 

In the years after college, I worked a couple small time jobs, but was never really happy and was starting to wonder what to do with my future. Around this time, one of those old friends with a shared interest in coding asked if I wanted to try learning a language on our own because he had been feeling the same way with his work and we had always talked about it. Having a willing partner and friend to work with was a good opportunity and all the motivation I needed to try again, especially with the abundance of resources and well made courses that had become available and affordable to the public over the years as the industry continued to explode in growth. It did take a little while to figure out where to start when confronted with all the different aspects of programming, once we were on track, I was capable of and knew more in a few months than what I had learned in a year of college study, and had exposure to multiple languages/tools and interactions between them. 

After some time learning on our own and researching our options, this friend took the courageous next step and decided to leave his job to enroll in one of the coding bootcamps that had become popular in recent years. While we were a bit skeptical because we only had online reviews and stories to go off of, seeing his growth during the course and hearing about the experience was more than enough evidence that it was worth while investment/endeavor, so I decided to do the same, and now here I am, more than half way through Flatirons curriculum. Although the course has been challenging at times, it feels good to have a structured path made by people with experience in the field, and there are always people from Flatiron to reach out to for help or other students to talk to in the friendly slack community that's been created for us.

Disclaimer: this isn't meant to downplay the value and effort a CS degree takes! Although this may change in the future, they are still an excellent asset right now, and combined with self study, I think it makes for a very knowledgeable individual and I wish I had stuck with it so I could've begun my career already. I say all this in appreciation that places like Flatiron exist and give people a second or even first chance without having to spend years studying or take out massive loans to accomplish.
